---
layout: post
title: Finance
tags: [thoughts]
---



1. the methods economists utilize to analyze a problem is worthy of attention.  First, they have an observation. For instance, why money seems to go from developing economy to developed economy? Then, device a dynamical system that is as simple as it can be to explain the observed pheromone. There are all kinds of interesting toy models, island economy with only 2 agents etc.
2.  Futures market as a price discovery mechanism. The method they used to mitigate risk is thoughtful. You have to put up collaterals  if you want to trade in the future's market. Therefore, if your circumstances don't allow you to carry out the transaction in the future, then you would be kicked out of the market before that risk is realized. This market solution to mitigate risk is something could be applied to other problems. 
3. Derivatives are insurance with specific trading constraints. The idea of a housing price put is quite practical. I wish we can have similar products here.
4. Dynamic heading is a reasonable concept. Every time interval, your hedging strategy can be adjusted, and cash-flow reconstructed. 
5. Looking at the demographical trend, I have one question. There is not gonna be enough workforce to keep the system going. They probably need to adapt some sort of immigration scheme to get workers from Africa, and the Muslim population. 
6. I agree Michael Pettis' definition of rich country and poor country. The former have infrastructure, institutional or hardware that allow people to create more value. Chinese government can pretty much set the GDP number to whatever they deemed reasonable, coz the way they compute that number is how much money they invested in. That is a horrible way of computing output. For instance, a bridge to nowhere would not cultivate more productive output, but it is computed as part of GDP. He thinks that the optimal amount of hardware investment is where the population can generate commensurate amount of productive output. China has long passed that point. There might not be enough cash-flow to service the accrued debt. 
7. Financial Suppression. A term coined by Michael Pettis and I can feel it. The inflation just went out of control, money today is by no means money few years ago. There are no investment instruments other than housing. Investment overseas is banned since 2016. 

