---
layout: post
title: People I've Met
tags: [thoughts]
---

I read somewhere that people are only alive in other's brain. So feel like writing down a few who live in mine.

1. a girl with small head. I was travelling in Yunan once with a group of friends, some of whom are caucasian. There is a villige located at the end of a mountain range. When we go through that range, we hear a girl calling on us with strange sounds. I turned back. First, it struck me what a beautiful scene it is. Mountain range in Yunan, amist the fog. It is just like one of those chinese paintings. Then I notice that girl. She is clearly abnomal, with extremely small head. I think it might be Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome. She can't talk, but she is clearly excited to see those caucasions. She kept point at them and then her home. There is something very unbridled about her. Her excitement, her joy, amist that beautiful scene. 

2. a boy who played with ants. It was the same group of people, we visited a local kindergarden. Again, kids are so happy to see all those white people, they flocked around them, except one boy. He played with ants. I joined him, and he didn't even bother to look at me. He is in a world of his own. He reminded me of myself. I must be like that when I was his age. 

3. a woman selling hotel rooms at 5am. Usually I would avoid those people who sell all kinds of weired stuff at the side of road. That day, there were only she and me on the road, it was hard to avoid her, but instead of getting frustrated, I can feel my mind change into sympathetic mode. It was 5am for gods sake. She is just trying to make a living. I put my hand on her shoulder gentally, and look her into the eyes. "I don't need a hotel room", I told her. but what I wanted to say is "I am sorry that I can't help you". People are just doing the best they can. 

4. a christian girl who is so fucking fake. My mother's best friends daughter lives in Singapore. She is a Christian who married to a French investment banker. We sort of grow up together I guess. That two years in Singapore are hellish for me. I can's stand the accent the arrogance and the stupidity. She called me twice during my stay there. Once when I first get there, coz her mother asked her to. The second when I need to go back coz she need me to deliever some cargos to her mum. Look, I was in a bad shape at that stage of my life. It is OK for her to not want be associated with me. That's not what's bother me. It is her fakeness that does it. Given her status now, she probably does chrity work or sort. Maybe the real charity is not to go all the way to Africa, but to try not say no when the opportunity present itself.

5. a doctor who knows nothing yet respected by the people. I was part of a programme where the privileged kids from Shanghai goes to rural villeges. One of the boy wants to interview a local doctor so I have to make arrangements for him. It quickly become clear to me that this villege doctor is illeterate. Yet when I take him across the villege, everyone comes to say hi to him. It was from that point on I begin to realize that medicine is more than just medical know-how. It is also about how you make the other's feel, that you care about what they are going through. Being a listener sometimes can alleviate the pain and suffering. In the interview, the boy asked the villege doctor life advice. He thought about it and said, be really good at what you do, such that you can take care of yourself. If condition allows, you can take care of people worthy of your love. 

6. a woman in power. She is a VIP and I was assigned to acompany her to a temple deep inside the mountain. In one particular temple, there are three statues, I suppose they represent children, power and money. An old lady tried to persuade that VIP that she should contribute the the temple. "It would give you excellent offsprings, power and money". The VIP replied "I am a powerful women who is very rich and I don't have children". Fuck, she's cool.

7. two boys. They are the best version of human existance. All the best to them. 

8. my painter cousin. For a long long time, I know that something doesn't quite add up to me. Life as a office worker just doesn't cut it for me, yet can't quite see the path for any other occupations. Then comes my painter cousin who I have not spoken to for decades. His studio is at the outskirt and apparently he is famous. There is an interesting sense of familiarity. I know him, dispite that we never speak. The struggles he described are mine as well. It was at that point, I have a piece of mind, holy crapy, it is possible to go through life not as an office worker. By the way, I think I make an excellent researcher. Tu Hongtao, if you ever read this, please fund me:)
