---
layout: post
title: Softness 
subtitle: My New Year Resolution
tags: thoughts
image: 
show-avatar: false
social-share: false
comments: true
---
1. **Get offline as often as possible.** If there is a pie chat, it would probably shown that I have spent way too much time online. 2020 is a scary year and I am really happy it is almost over now. At begining of the year, I felt that I need to get online to acquire as much information as possible, turns out, twitter can be rather addictive. It reveal parts of the societies that I never knew existed, and makes me wonder, why the hell am I still alive, how did I dodge all those bullets. At this point, I think that is prbably enough time spent on these bullshit. It is time to build myself a life as I see fit again. 
2. **Get off carbs as much as possible**. I think i just saw a study yesterday that turns out, carbs are the culprit of high blood pressure, not salt. I think at this point it is clear that carbs are no good and should be get rid off.
3. **Let's not fight the world anymore**. Yesterday, I saw a twitter war between a Caltech female prof, who is ultra progressive, with a UW tenured prof. It is just wrong, at their age, and behave that way. I kind of feel the society require us to do one thing to be a productive member of this gigantic machine, but life is much more than that. For instance, how to get your point acrossed without insult others. How to build productive relationships. I feel the softness and sensativeness of a female should be utilized instead of avoid. Maybe a better approach would be to have the capacity to hammer things ready but do everything one can to avoid it. It is just a very shitty way, to be a 40s old single female and behave the way Anima does. BE SMART, be quiet.
4. **Learn how to be a productive researcher** Intuitively, I know that a lot can be done in the field of reinforcement learning, yet the tsunami of papers that comes at you is overwhelming. Need to figure out a coping strategy. 
5. **My predictions for the years to come** This COVID thing is going to be a watershet event from a historical perspective. Just about every family on the globe know someone whose life has been cut short because of this disease that originated from China, the second time. This force is gonna come out one way or another, politicians and political went is just a manifestation of this undercurrent. There are multiple areas that is lacking and need to be built, might as well be strategic and be part of that process. If there are things that are inevitable, might as well choose to do it instead of being forced into it. 
6. **发上等愿,结中等缘,享下等福;择高处立,寻平处住,向宽处行** good advice I saw the other day, would want to incorperate it more into my life in the coming years. 


